---
layout: post
title: Wales Day 2
author: gareth_terrace
date: '2019-08-25 21:26:26'
intro_paragraph: |-
  Start point: Port Talbot

  End point: Laugharne
---
I've still not eaten the mini cheddars.

110km today, my longest ride ever so far.  Woke up feeling better and had the room to myself in the pub. Decent breakfast with the thickest sliced bread for toast I've ever seen. Meant to grab a banana for the journey but completely forgot.

Bike's going well, everything feels good and although it's a bit heavy at the moment full of food and snacks that'll ease up soon.

Stopped at the mumbles for 2nd breakfast and got a pretty miserable sandwich and coffee combo. Started chatting to a guy with dogs who insisted it was more than 80km from the mumbles to Laugharne. Since I was off route in this café the garmin was saying 122km to destination but as soon as I got back on the road it dropped to 80. I was right! Damn you man with dogs for making me rush.

They were super cute dogs though.

Another glorious day of sun and some really nice climbs. Terrain changed from coastline to open moorland to towns and then back to coastline.  NCN left me a bit stranded when I got to the A40 and I just had to get as far left as possible and go like stink to try and get off it. Horrible road, would really avoid cycling on it if you can. There's not much else in the way of direct routes out that way though so I had to just eat it. Got into Laugharne about 4ish, ready for a shower and some non cycling for the evening.

Getting dinner tonight was difficult, everywhere is packed out. I  found an Italian guy making pizzas in a sports bar. I thought they'd be traditional Napoli style but I think they're premade bases with his own toppings. Ham and blue cheese!

It's lovely in Laugharne, really busy though. They had a "fun day" today which looks like the whole town just got sloshed and sang songs. Wish I'd turned up earlier! I walked past the pub and 30 smashed Welsh people were happily singing "Take me home country roads" - naturally in perfect pitch because this is Wales.  They then transitioned to Wonderwall and the superstitious part of me wondered if that was a sign.

I ended up sat next to the castle writing on my phone listening to the birds and people shouting at disobedient dogs.  I think this is where I want to retire. I bet it's a bit grim in winter but right now, with the sun going down it's really nice. 

I fell up the stairs at my B&B, small shin graze but nothing that'll stop progress. My current biggest issue is sore sit bones and running out of suntan lotion. I can only solve one of those. Hoping I can get to an Aldi and pick some more up. Gonna have to eat my way through some carried food to make space though. Mini cheddars and banana chips are going first. All the chocolate is probably melted. Might have one of them tonight as desert.

I know I'm definitely in Wales. Father and son are on the grass to my left hooning a rugby ball about. It'd be football back home.

Gonna walk back now, the flies are annoying me and I don't want to get eaten alive.

Nice day, no headaches or light-headedness. Just a slight ear ringing from the A40.
